[MUSIC]
>> Jon Kuperman: And then this is
the last section which is Memory Leaks.
And before we go into memory leaks we
just need to cover a little bit of boring
computer science stuff which
is Garbage Collection.
So, there's kind of two kinds of
languages garbage collected and
not garbage collected languages
JavaScript is garbage collected.
And idea if you're in a not garbage
collected language you have to actually
allocate all the memory you use and
de-allocate it when you're done.
So, you've used old Objective C or
something like that or to see where you
have to do like Malik to grab some memory.
You have to be like, hey,
I'm gonna make an array you give me
some memory you fully control it.
But JavaScript and a lot of languages,
scripting languages all of them,
use garbage collection.
And so what garbage collection is a little
bit deeper down, is this is concept.
They call it mark and sweep.
And so, what it does is it goes and
it finds a list of all of the items,
like all the memory allocated that
you have in the whole document.
And then it's basically finding
which ones still maintain
some kind of reference somewhere.
So, if you have an object in memory, but
you have nothing referencing it, no
nothing, not being passed into a function,
not being used,
not being anything like that.
It gets marked for deletion basically.
So, it's a little bit complicated and
we don't really need to
understand how it works exactly.
It's just we need to
understand that with garbage
collector languages it's all about
whether or not it has a reference still.
If there's still anything using it or
pointing at it it gets capped
otherwise it gets ditched.
So, in that level, JavaScript can't have
memory leaks in the pure sense, right?
Because memory gets
automatically deallocated.
But what it can have is like user error,
where like a developer forgets to
remove a pointer to something or
a developer forgets to clean things up.
So, there's some basic types of memory
leaks that are really common but
they really can range.
They can be a lot of different things.
So, the common ones that I've seen
a lot are the first one I call
the accidental global.
So, for those who have taken
some of the JavaScript classes.
If you're not in script mode and
you assign a variable like this without
bar const with a keyword declaration.
What it does is it binds it to the window,
right?
And the window is always gonna
have that reference to it.
So, stuff that you pinned to the global
object is just gonna stick around forever.
So, you probably meant to do for
the bar equals whatever and
then it would have been garbage collected
as soon as that function was done.
But in fact you're pinning
stuff to the window and
it's just sticking around there forever.
Another one is things like timeouts and
intervals can be really tricky.
Especially if you don't
remember to stop them.
So, if you have a set interval or a set
timeout that can dump into a variable that
you could pause execution on or
stop execution.
But I see there's a lot with any
kind of polling interval request.
Just remember that whatever happens
inside that interval that is gonna
stay in memory because the interval
is still referencing it.
Another one is this is probably
the most common one I see.
So, it's like as front-end
developers we often have this
kind of duality the situation.
Where we have DOM and
we're taking the DOM into memory.
And by that I just mean if you
do a jQuery selector, okay?
So, if you do jQuery selector button..
So, you have the button.
That's in the DOM that's one place but
now you also have this memory in
memory representation of that button.
And is important to memory of
those are two different things,
if you get rid of one, it doesn't get
rid of the other one necessarily, right?
So, if you do like var equals
a jQuery selector on a button.
And then you set equals undefined.
You know the button's not gonna
disappear off the website, right?
Like cuz they're separate things,
it's like a copy.
And so, what can happen is if you,
this is a contrived example,
but if you grab the button.
And then later you take care of it like
you have a single page apps you erase all
that mark up.
It's not gonna erase all that stuff
that you have in memory still holding
on to that button.
So, just kind of keeping in mind
whenever you're working with this.
You got a bunch of HTML in your append it.
Did you get rid of that, did you unset
that thing you know what I mean?
And vice versa just because you're
removing something from the document
doesn't mean you're
removing it from memory.